salamu alikom arabic speakers my name is
Jay I'm one of the expert teachers here
at e2 language and now II to school what
we're going to do in this lesson is just
for you we're going to look at IELTS
speaking for Arabic speakers if you're
not an Arabic speaker this will still be
helpful to you and you should subscribe
to the channel because I'm going to go
through all of the main languages around
the world so eventually I'll get to your
language but this one's specific for
Arabic speakers okay let's get started
so what are the main differences between
English and Arabic in terms of speaking
well in English there are 22 valve
sounds like ah oh ah for example but in
Arabic there are only 8 vowel sounds so
Arabic speakers have a lot of trouble
trying to make some of the English vowel
sounds we're going to look at that in
this lesson in English there are 24
continents but in Arabic there are 32
nevertheless there are still some
consonants that Arabic people find
difficult to pronounce to say so we're
going to look at these particular issues
ok
so stick around this will be interesting
let's start by looking at the vowel
sounds for Arabic speakers in green are
the vowel sounds that you do not have
problems with but in red are the vowel
sounds that you do have problems with
let's go through them together so we'll
start with sheep that one should be fine
and ship that should be fine and cat
that should be fine and far as an hour
should be fine and O as in good it
should be fine as in shoot it should be
fine
problematic ones include it as in bed uh
as in on or as in door uh as in up earth
as in bird and teacher as in earth sorry
as in teacher so let's have a closer
look at these
specific ones we're going to look at the
difference between saying II and err
okay yeah sounds wrong and it sounds
right so what Arabic speakers tend to do
is when there's a word with a vowel
sound with an F Val sound you guys tend
to say II okay so let's try to fix that
what I want you to do is actually follow
me and say the sounds after me so let's
start by looking at these two don't say
bit say bet bit bet
don't say disc when you're trying to say
desk disk desk
don't say did when you're trying to say
dead did dead
don't say hid when you're trying to say
head hid head don't say miss when you're
trying to say mess miss mess and don't
say it lift if you're trying to say left
these two sounds are or the if sound is
a very problematic one for Arabic
speakers please repeat after me this is
a crazy sentence and I apologize I was
trying to make some sentences and this
one came out it's very gloomy but let's
do it
I'll read it first and then you repeat
after me I bet he'll hit his head on the
desk a mess will be left and then he'll
be dead your turn
cool good stuff
let's have a look at Oh versus or this
is also a problem for Arabic speakers so
for Eric big speakers sometimes it's
difficult to say the word bought for
example it sounds like but like I bought
a new car yesterday you know I bought a
new car yesterday so don't say but say
bought bought bought don't say taht say
taut taut taut don't say
cops say corpse cops corpse don't say
not say not not not
don't say pot say port pot port don't
say Cod say cord Cod cord cool repeat
after me
at the airport I taught a corpse to
count from naught to 40 you try
cool how are you going it's like when
you try to say these sounds that feels
very unnatural right but to me to the
native English speaker it sounds perfect
for you it's like war or doesn't feel
right but to my ears it's like oh that's
perfect well done thank you okay
so just keep practicing let's keep going
let's look at multi vowel sounds so more
than one Val together these are called
diphthongs in linguistics but let's look
at multi vowel sounds for Arabic
speakers there are how many are six
seven eight nine ten in English okay you
have no problems with wait ay-ay-ay
this is in your language so that's no
problem and ow as in cow is in your
language so that's fine but you have
lots of problems with these ones here I
as in my boy as in boy Oh as in show
year as in here air as in hair or as in
tourist ire as in fire hour as in power
there are some particularly difficult
ones let's look at the difference
between a and a okay so for Arabic
speakers sometimes if you're trying to
say the word raid it sounds to me like
red so don't say red say raid red raid
don't say lead say laid lid laid
don't say Plitt say plate plate plate
don't say then say feign then vein
don't say radio or radio say radio radio
Radio don't say grit say great great
great cool all right please repeat after
me
wait concentrate you need to go straight
but don't touch the wet paint and try
not to faint
all right let's look at the difference
between o and O okay this is a very
common mistake for Arabic speakers it's
the difference between I hope and I hope
I hope you get well and I hope you get
well in English you need to say oh I
hope I hope not oh it's not a short oh
it's a long oh oh okay
so don't say hop say hope hop hope don't
say
location say location location location
don't say fun say phone fun phone don't
say hotel say hotel Hotel hotel
don't say ocean say ocean ocean ocean
don't say remote say remote remote
remote cool repeat after me
I hope the location of the remote hotel
will be near the ocean and have a phone
you try
okay let's look at consonant sounds for
Arabic speakers so we've talked about
the vowel sounds that and that and the
multi vowel sounds that oh and the ooh
for example now we're going to look at
the consonants these are like kurt fir
when you actually use your lips in your
tongue in your teeth for example we're
going to look at the specific issues
that arabic speakers have with some
english consonant sounds okay just
before we do that though if you're not
yet a subscriber to this youtube channel
do click that subscribe button the
reason why is eventually we will make
some videos like this one but we'll look
at grammar issues that Arabic speakers
have when they're writing and speaking
they're going to be great okay
plus we publish lots of great videos on
here all the time so do click the
subscribe button by the way if you're
having real issues with your
pronunciation and you would like to
improve your pronunciation
check out WWE to school that's e number
to school comm you can sign up for a
course called speaking lab and it takes
you through all the different sounds of
English okay so that's a particularly
helpful one for pronunciation plus we
have other courses on there for grammar
and vocabulary and all sorts of stuff
and if you're struggling with your tests
check out eetu language comm it's for
test preparation okay so there's two
websites
e to school comm for general English
pronunciation vocab a to language comm
for test preparation cool all right
let's keep going so here are all of the
consonant sounds in English let's just
go through them but to be honest if
Arabic speakers you only have issues
with these sounds here so we've got purp
we'll look at closely at that one but
for the
[Music]
zip chip-chip kurt good no no mmm
what her okay no problem
because Arabic has so many consonants
you can see that your only struggle with
a few one of the biggest ones that
you'll struggle with our ears but and
put the difference between book and put
it's a very slight subtle difference but
per but per one comes more from the
throat that's the book sound but the one
I want you to pronounce correctly it
comes more from the front of the mouth
like a perp put almost like you're
spitting oh maybe I am spitting who
knows all right let's do some practice
so don't say beach say peach beach peach
don't say bye say PI by PI
don't say bleed say plead bleed plead
can you hear the difference don't say
bought say port port port don't say
blaze say plays blaze plays
don't say cub say cup cub Cup it's a
tiny little difference but it it's the
difference between me understanding what
you say and me going huh and if you're
taking one of these tests for example
it's the difference between the examiner
or the computer going oh I understand
you versus huh I didn't understand like
he blazed soccer he blazed soccer no no
he plays soccer plip slip slip put club
it's more of a put sound blood not blaze
soccer plays soccer tiny difference but
lots of importance there okay repeat
after me please I plead for a cup of
peach pie please you try okay let's look
at another problematic consonant sound
between English and Arabic that is
versus ver okay so don't say fairy say
very very very so this time when you're
trying to say the very that is very good
which is perfect very it comes more from
the throat fairy fairy comes from the
the front of the mouth so this time I
want you to use your throat is very good
very good not very good not very good
okay so don't say leaf say leave leave
leave
don't say village say village village
village
don't say proof say prove proof proof we
also have a put sound there
don't say belief when you want to say
believe believe believe ones are now and
ones a verb you try
don't say file if you want to say
something is vile file vile okay let's
read this sentence repeat after me
please we need to leave the village to
prove that we don't believe in vile
villains you try
okay this is the last of the consonant
sounds okay so come on let's keep going
keep watching this video this is the
difference between tert and dirt and the
so Turton dirt versus the correct sound
which is the the the the the thought
let's have a look this is this is a
problem in many languages but also in
Arabic this is a very idiosyncratic or
strange sound of English so don't say
tink say think ready
don't say tink I tink I tink say I think
I your tongue needs to hit the top of
teeth I think I think it's good I think
that's very good I think I think about
my teeth when I say thought I think
about my teeth when I say thought let's
try
don't say tink say think tink think
don't say toot say tooth to tooth
don't say Thursday say Thursday Thursday
Thursday and here we have the sound so
it's not too it's do don't say dat say
that dat that don't say brother say
brother brother brother don't say dare
say they're okay repeat after me I think
that my brother is getting his truth
taken out on Thursday you try
by the way if you are really struggling
with your pronunciation you can book
one-on-one tutorials on e to language
and one of our expert teachers will be
able to help you out it's one on one and
we use zoom which is like a program like
Skype and our teachers can give you one
to one personal training on your
pronunciation so think about booking a
tutorial be very helpful okay okay okay
okay okay
now we've moved out of single sounds
actually we did some multi vowel sounds
now we're going to look at a thing
called consonant clusters this is when
we get a few sounds and we push them
together so in English there are lots of
consonant clusters and in Arabic there
are very fierce there are many problems
with consonant clusters okay for example
look at number one here spray spray
spray spray so I would say sprinkle but
many Arabic speakers would say it's per
inkle sir prinkle SAP wrinkle Supreme
cool so what you need to do is please
don't add any vowel sounds here try to
join these together as one sound spray
sprinkle so say sprinkle not so bring
chol sprinkle say strong not a strong
strong so you say glow look look look
look look glow not girl Oh glow
say threat not furet threat say speak
not so big speak cool alright that was
just an introduction to some of the
consonant clusters those groups of
consonant sounds that come at the
beginning of a word I'm actually going
to show you all of them in English okay
I'm gonna go through all 30 consonant
clusters initial consonant cluster
sounds at the beginning of the word so
we'll do this pretty quickly but you can
pause the video and stop and say these
the word okay let's have a look blue as
in blue borough as in bread drip as in
draw droite as in dwell flip as in floor
front as in free glut as in glow group
as in grow clip as in claw crook as in
crow quote as in quick flip as in play
pro as in prey
skirt as in sky scrub as in scrub squirt
is in squall slip as in sled smut as in
small snow as in snow spur as in speech
by the way I'm gonna stop there because
in English we actually have consonant
clusters of one two three consonants
together this does not exist at all in
Arabic in Arabic there are no three
consonant cluster three-part consonant
clusters like this at all in your
language so this is completely different
and completely new you need to practice
it split as in split spre as in Spray
stir as in stay
Strutt as in straw sweat is in sway
shrimp as in shred truck as in tree
twerp as in
twig throat as in throw
[Music]
what as in thwart now this is very rare
I never I can think of one word for
thwart what for what for what that is a
strange consonant cluster okay cool so
we just went through all 30 of the
consonant clusters that come at the
beginning of words in English okay and
some of them those three-part consonant
clusters do not exist in Arabic at all
so this is new a new sound that you're
making okay just have to keep trying it
it's physiological its muscular it's
your lips your teeth your tongue your
throat it's like learning to ride a
bicycle it's a physical thing it's not
mental well it's a little bit mental but
it's mental and physical okay all right
cool please repeat after me this is a
crazy paragraph but just let's do it
quick let's play sport and split after
we can draw pictures of dreaded blue
crows that have small slender claws and
that live in shrubby glowing Tweety
trees you try
okay this is the final part of this
lesson we're going to look at final
consonant clusters so this is when
groups of consonants come at the end of
the word like for example it's crazy
stuff this is the final part so let's do
it
okay here are all the final English
consonant clusters there are twenty-five
so as in lads as in soft as in fix boom
as in bulb
it's a weird sound which is in belt old
as in build oof
as engulf look as in silk
ooop is in help
oats as in salt as in punch and as in
send and as in sent hmm as in bronze as
in laps tapped tapped now just let me
stop here this is so important this
sound this sound this is a past tense
verb like I tapped I tapped I tapped my
fing I tapped Edie Edie sometimes make
the makes the bit but like I mapped
something or I tapped something or I
stopped so you don't say stop it you say
stopped stopped crazy sounds anyway
there you go tapped next one as in mask
as in clasp as in chest
I act I can't say this sound I'm sorry
could look act act act that's a crazy
one - five more I can't say this one
either
film film valve jump change change
[Music]
and finally ink ink ink ink ink help
I can't clasp the bronze valve I want to
build a treasure chest from bronze and
gold but I have a single cent oops I
missed the word you try
okay so maybe probably what you're doing
is you're saying helped hell up
hell up hell up don't put any vowel
sounds in here
OOP OOP OOP it's not it's not it's not
help help like this
there's no vowel sound its help help or
it's not class AB class AB plus AB it's
clasp clasp no vowel sound between these
consonants here okay or it's not one it
want it want want want or it's not
billard billet billet build build build
cool if you're not yet a subscriber
please click that subscribe button and
become a subscriber to our YouTube
channel I hope this was helpful do stick
around and become a subscriber because
we will do the grammar differences
between English and Arabic as well so if
you're struggling with your writing and
your verbs or your article use of
whatever I'm going to make a few videos
on that if you want additional help if
you really want to get good at English
then check out eetu school comm or check
out eetu language comm okay cool we can
help you if your general English and
with your test preparation my name is J
thank you very much for watching I will
see you soon oh by the way if you like
this video share it with your friends
who also speak Arabic that would be
great to share this around so if they're
speaking English they can speak a lot
more clearly be great cool bye bye
[Music]